Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a comedy, horror,
sci-fi film called "The Stepford Wives."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
At the E.B.S. affiliate conference, reality
television executive producer Joanna Eberhart
announces the network's latest reality T.V.
shows that pits men and women against each
other.
One of the shows features a husband and wife
spending a tropical vacation separately to
challenge their marriage.
It ends with the wife choosing to leave her
husband for her sensual tropical paradise.
Hank, the husband from the show, appears at
the conference, and the audience cheers for
the disgruntled man.
Heartbroken over his wife leaving him, Hank
blames the reality show for ruining his life.
Gun in hand, he attacks Joanna on stage until
security tackles him down.
After the event, Joanna is unharmed and ecstatic,
strolling back into the office with a beaming
smile.
However, Joanna was not Hank's only target.
Before he went to the conference, Hank shot
his wife and her new boyfriends from the reality
show.
Given the situation, the network's shareholders
and affiliates refuse to be involved with
Joanna and her programs.
The gravity of the situation dawns on Joanna
slowly; her eyes widened and red in tears.
Not wanting to lose face, she shakes off her
emotions and takes her termination with controlled
grace.
As she walks down the halls, her facade shrivels.
Hidden behind the elevator doors, Joanna finally
lets out a shriek.
Days later, Joanna's husband, Walter, visits
her in the hospital.
It turns out Joanna has suffered from a nervous
breakdown.
After her episode, Walter quits the network
in protest for how she was treated.
Feeling that her life and mind are falling
apart, Joanna decides to move away to start
over.
With their children, Pete and Kimberly, they
move to Stepford, a suburb in Connecticut.
The place is a stark contrast from their life
in Manhattan and is full of clean-cut lawns
and trees.
The family arrives at their new home, welcomed
by the sunny realtor, Mrs. Claire Wellington.
Claire assists a dazed Joanna and the family
into the house, giving them a tour of the
luxurious space and technology.
The house is installed with an electronic
system that secures the house, manages the
supplies, and even checks their health condition.
The house also includes a robot dog that attempts
to climb down the stairs but fails.
During their first night at the house, Walter
watches his wife sleep, worried if their new
home would do her well.
One morning, Joanna wakes up alone, bewildered
as she walks around the house.
Claire gives Joanna a tour around the suburb,
pointing at the Stepford Men's Association
where the male residents meet and the Simply
Stepford Day Spa where the female residents
enjoy quality time for themselves.
Inside, the day spa is disorientingly idyllic,
where the women all wear sundresses and speak
in near unison.
Claire gathers the women for a workout, to
which Joanna questions how they could do so
in sundresses.
The ladies whisper at the thought of allowing
their husbands to see them in dark sweat clothes
as Joana wears.
The women perform exercises based on household
chores which Joanna finds ridiculous.
Meanwhile, Walter heads to the Stepford Men's
Association, where numerous luxury sports
cars and motorcycles are parked outside.
Walter is then welcomed inside.
On the Fourth of July town picnic, Walter
and the kids relish the new experience while
Joanna is uncomfortable with the suburban
lifestyle.
A group of women approach the couple and give
suggestive compliments on Walter.
Their conversation is interrupted when Joanna
finds a familiar face, writer Bobbie Markowitz
and her husband, Dave.
They also meet a renowned architect, Roger
Bannister, and his partner Jerry Harmon.
Claire gathers everyone for square dancing,
in which Joanna and Bobbie are forced to participate.
Despite their initial apprehension, Joanna
starts having fun until a woman named Sarah
spins uncontrollably while repeating the song
over and over.
Her spin goes faster and faster until she
abruptly stops and collapses.
Joanna squeezes through the crowd to assist
while the rest watch, dumbfounded at the incident.
Within the crowd emerges Mike Wellington,
who asks Walter to pull his wife away from
the scene.
The men shuffle in front of Joanna, blocking
her view.
She takes a peek between the men's feet and
sees Mike press something that causes a spark
on Sarah's head.
Mike orders the men to assist Sarah out and
into his vehicle, ignoring Joanna's insistence
that she needs to be taken to the hospital.
The party continues as if nothing happened
while Joanna continues to argue that Sarah
needs more help.
The Wellingtons assure her that Sarah will
get all the help she'll need before turning
away.
That evening, Joanna continues to argue about
Sarah, despite Walter receiving news from
her husband that she's okay.
Joanna raises her other suspicions against
Mike and the townspeople, but Walter has had
enough.
Tired of her snide attitude and obsession
with control, Walter threatens to divorce
her.
Defeated, Joanna apologizes and admits her
faults.
The couple reminisces of old times and how
their jobs at the network drove a gap between
them.
Their stories rekindle their bond.
As they put their past behind them, Joanna
and Walter agree to embrace the country life
in the suburbs.
As part of this new lifestyle, Joanna changes
her dark clothes to sundresses as she embraces
the life of a housewife.
Bobbie and Roger aren't on board with her
new style, however.
As the two talk about the other women, Joanna
gets the idea of visiting Sarah to see if
she's okay.
The three head to Sarah's house, but no one
answers.
Finding the door unlocked, they go inside
and listen to Sarah's loud moans and piercing
shrieks of pleasure.
The three hide behind a wall as Sarah heads
down to the kitchen.
Roger finds a smooth gadget with Sarah's name
engraved on it.
He presses buttons randomly, not noticing
Sarah pausing abruptly and her chest inflating
as he does.
Bobbie and Joanna finally convince him to
leave, and they run outside, laughing.
The three retreat to Bobbie's house, where
Joanna and Roger gasp at its chaotic state.
Roger opens up about his unstable relationship
with Jerry, leading all three of them to admit
how they've moved to Stepford to fix their
family problems.
Inspired by her talk with Walter, Joanna suggests
that they all embrace the suburban life in
Stepford.
At the Men's Association club, the men battle
with remote-controlled cars.
After winning the game, Walter smokes a cigar
as he shares his thoughts on the peaceful
life in Stepford and the other men's lovely
wives.
Meanwhile, Joanna, Bobbie, and Roger attend
the Stepford Book Club, where the other wives
beam at them, making the three uncomfortable.
Adamant on changing her life, Joanna breaks
the silence and brings up the biography she
just finished of former president Lyndon Johnson,
earning no reaction from the club.
Instead, Claire introduces a Christmas craft
book that the crowd applauds at, including
Roger.
When the club focuses on her Jewish religion,
Bobbie becomes defensive and sarcastically
mimics their enthusiasm, silencing the others.
Claire brushes it off, but Bobbie continues
to joke at their expense.
At the men's club, Walter shares how Joanna
agreed to change and make their home at Stepford
more peaceful.
The other men, however, are unconvinced.
Upon Mike's insistence, Ted calls upon his
wife to pay Walter the winning money for their
game earlier.
Ted's wife places his A.T.M. card in her mouth
and withdraws cash from her mouth.
All the other men approach Walter expectantly
as the truth dawns on him.
The lovely Stepford wives are cyborgs.
One evening, Joanna bakes dozens of cupcakes
for Kimberly's day camp.
Dave and Bobbie visit, but Dave quickly leaves
with Walter for the Men's Association.
Suspicious, Bobbie tells Joanna to get a babysitter
so they can follow.
At the club, Jerry brings Roger, who makes
sarcastic comments about the association.
Mike sways the comments, assuring them that
they welcome their relationship.
Outside, Joanna and Bobbie see the curtains
closed, raising Bobbie's suspicions further.
Upon Bobbie's insistence, they climb into
an open window, alerting the men downstairs.
Bobbie turns on the light and finds various
family portraits of the Stepford residents.
Hearing footsteps, they shut the lights and
hide.
A figure in the dark approaches, shutting
his flashlight off.
To their surprise, it's Roger playing tricks
on them.
He allows them to escape as the other men
walk up the stairs.
With the girls gone, Roger lies to Mike and
the rest, claiming that no one was there.
Jerry directs Roger to enter one of the rooms
where he finds something that worries him.
Two days later, Bobbie knocks on Roger's house,
searching for him as he hadn't contacted them
since the night at the Men's Association.
They check the garbage cans, finding some
of Roger's valuable clothing and collections.
At the town assembly, Joanna and Bobbie finally
see Roger, who's announced to be running for
State Senate.
Joanna and Bobbie's jaws gape upon seeing
a clean-cut Roger wearing a suit, in contrast
to his usual flamboyant style.
Bobbie asks Roger if his relationship is happy,
to which Roger says yes, now that he understands
he doesn't need to be flamboyant and sensitive.
As the crowd cheers for Roger, Joanna realizes
that Bobbie is right: something is wrong in
Stepford.
Afraid, Joanna insists on leaving Stepford
at once, arguing that the idyllic life in
Stepford is not normal.
When Walter refuses, she threatens to leave
with their children with or without him.
She tries to leave the house, but the automated
system has the door locked.
Walter unlocks the door for her but stops
her by promising that they will leave together
tomorrow.
That evening, Joanna wakes up to the robot
dog whimpering.
The dog hands her a remote control with her
name engraved on the handle.
Frightened, Joanna researches the other women
in Stepford and discovers that they were all
successful women in high positions before
moving to the suburbs.
She also reads an article on a missing champion
terrier, whose features are similar to the
robot dog.
Walter discovers her in the office, and Joanna
waves his worries away, claiming to be researching
an apple pie recipe.
With the revelation, Joanna heads to Bobbie's
house the next day.
The once chaotic house has turned into a spotless
and cozy home.
Bobbie, now blonde and in a Sunday dress,
welcomes Joanna to her home.
Bobbie hands her sons their customized lunch,
filled with their requests.
When one boy is disappointed about a missing
action figure, Bobbie happily gives him five
hundred dollars as compensation.
With the boys gone, Joanna explodes with her
worry over Bobbie and her discovery about
the other women.
Bobbie, however, focuses on tidying up the
place in bliss.
Joanna freaks out over Bobbie's new look in
life and insistence that Joanna should change
the same way.
Tears of fear in her eyes, Joanna watches
Bobbie's hand touch open flames on the stove,
but Bobbie doesn't even flinch.
Joanna rushes away and drives to pick up her
children from camp but learns that Walter
had taken them already.
Joanna checks back home and finds that no
one is there.
She heads to the Men's Association, determined
to retrieve her children.
The club is dark and quiet, alerting Joanna
to be cautious.
A portrait of her family sits near the entrance,
but she's replaced with a blonde version of
herself.
With thunder rumbling outside, Joanna searches
for the men, unwilling to be taken down.
The men gather around her, cornering her.
Walter emerges, listing down all the insecurities
he's felt since meeting Joanna.
Much like the other men of Stepford, Walter
is tired of being undermined by his wife.
Joanna accuses the men of killing their wives
over their selfish jealousies, but Mike corrects
her that they're merely perfecting them.
Mike presents a promotional video explaining
the Female Improvement System.
The system inserts nanochips into the women's
brains and enhances their appearance to their
husbands' ideal women.
Joanna points out how the women are turned
into slaves, but they agree that it's what
they want.
Joanna wonders if these robotic wives can
truly love their husbands, making Walter think.
Mike presents a robot body, the prototype
for Joanna's replacement.
Hoping to change her husband's mind, Joanna
kisses him, reminding him of their love.
But Walter moves forward with the process.
Tearfully, Joanna relents and joins Walter
as the platform descends, accepting her fate
to be changed into Walter's ideal wife.
The next day, the Stepford wives shop for
groceries in beautiful dresses, greeting each
other in delightful harmony.
Among them is Joanna, now with long blonde
hair, blending in with the rest of the wives.
One evening, the Wellingtons host a formal
ball, crowning Joanna and Walter as the guests
of honor.
Clad in a white suit and a pristine silver
dress, the couple enters the ballroom surrounded
by the applause of their neighbors.
The Stepford men and wives dance to the Midsummer
Night's waltz, appearing like a ball in a
fairytale.
A girlish Joanna changes partners and dances
with Mike while Walter asks Claire for champagne.
As Claire fetches the drinks, however, Walter
sneaks into the laboratory.
The system warns as Walter steps into a restricted
area, not meant for the Stepford husbands.
In a large room, countless glass models of
feminine figures surround Walter.
When he approaches one, the system activates,
reacting to him.
He presses all the buttons, activating the
microchips of one of the Stepford wives.
Walter continuously presses buttons, effectively
overloading the system and deactivating the
Stepford programming.
He does the same for the other systems.
Upstairs, while Joanna leads Mike into the
garden, the woman linked to the system Walter
deactivates snaps out of control.
She faces her husband, fury in her eyes.
As Walter overloads the system, more and more
wives break free from mind control, including
Bobbie and Roger.
Claire walks back to the ballroom, witnessing
the chaos of the awakened wives unleashing
their fury over their husbands.
Hysterically, Claire fetches Mike from the
garden and back into the ballroom.
The husbands beg Mike for help, and he instructs
them to use their remote controls, but it
doesn't work.
Joanna approaches Mike in her fake sing-song
voice, only to drop the act.
Walter never implanted her with the nanochips.
The revelation quiets the arguing couples.
Walter refused to turn his wife into a science
project, earning Joanna's full respect.
Mike and the other men rage over Walter's
decision.
Mike grabs a candlestick to attack Walter,
but Joanna swings another candlestick against
his head.
The whole crowd quiets as Mike's robotic head
snaps off his neck.
Claire falls to her knees, mourning over the
Stepford husband she's worked so hard for.
She attempts to place the head back on her
husband as she mourns for her project.
Claire orchestrated everything in Stepford
in the hopes of creating the perfect community
where men are men and women are lovely and
cherished.
A world of romance and beauty.
Before Stepford, Claire was just like Joanna
and the rest of the wives: overworked successful
women who were underloved.
She was a renowned brain surgeon and genetic
engineer, leading a busy life until she found
her husband, the real Mike, cheating on her
with her research assistant.
After eliminating them, she created the robot
Mike, her perfect husband whom other men will
respect.
Then, she created Stepford, a world in her
perfect image.
She changed the wives, and her next step was
to change the husbands as well.
Delirious with her lost love, Claire kisses
robot Mike's severed head, only to be electrocuted.
The town gasps as Claire falls on the floor,
weak yet still alive.
She crawls back to her robot husband's head,
cradling it next to her face as she accepts
her fate.
Six months later, Joanna, Bobbie, and Roger
are interviewed by Larry King, discussing
their success after Stepford.
Joanna made a documentary about Stepford that
won six Emmys, Bobbie published a best-selling
poetry book, and Roger won a seat at the State
Senate.
Joanna and Walter's marriage have taken a
positive turn, finally accepting that perfection
was not ideal.
Meanwhile, the Stepford husbands are still
in Stepford under house arrest.
Now, they do the household chores while the
women are in control of the community.